---
title: Grid picker component
date: 2026-04-10
description: A reusable grid picker
---

Here is an annotated code sample, explaining the concepts I put together for my grid picker component. For the full code snippet, see: frontend/components/GridPicker.tsx

## Import statements

```
import React, { useState } from "react";
import { Pressable, Text, View } from "react-native";
import { units } from "../data/units";
import { globalStyles } from "../styles/globalStyles";
```

- Pressable is like a Button component, but more customisable.

- units is a data array defined elsewhere.  It contains an array of units.


globalStyles is also defined elsewhere in a global stylesheet.

## Function declaration and state management

```
export default function GridPicker() {
  const [unitsSelected, setUnitsSelected] = useState<number[]>([]);
```

- The GridPicker function is exported, making it improtable in other pages.
- State management is used here. The state is typed as number[], meaning an array of numbers and is initially empty.

## UI declaration (outer return statement)

```
  return (
    <View style={globalStyles.container}>
      <View style={globalStyles.grid}>
```

This returns the basic user interface, comprising an outer container and an inner grid.

## Mapping through the units array

```
  return (
            <Pressable
              key={item.number}
              onPress={() => {
                setUnitsSelected((prev) => {
                  if (prev.includes(item.number)) {
                    return prev.filter((n) => n !== item.number);
                  } else {
                    return [...prev, item.number];
                  }
                });
              }}
```

- the .map() function renders a UI element for each item in the array.
- setUnitsSelected is a setter function tied to a specific piece of state in a specific component instance.  When you call it with a function, React queues that update.  During the next render cycle, React executes the function with the latest state as prev, uses the returned value as the next state and rerenders the component based on that updated state.

## Filter logic

If 'prev' (array of selected units) contains the selected item, it is filtered out and removed from the array.
If not, it is added to the array.

## Conditional styling

```
 style={[
                globalStyles.card,
                isSelected && globalStyles.selectedCard,
              ]}
```

The styling after the && only applies if isSelected is true.

## Array string conversion method

```
  Selected: {unitsSelected.length > 0 ? unitsSelected.join(", ") : "None"}
```

The join method converts the number array to a string with a comma and space between each item.



