---
title: Setting up an Expo app
date: 2026-04-04
description: Step by step basic Expo app setup
---

# Why Expo?

I chose Expo mainly because it offers file-based navigation for React Native mobile apps.  This dynamic routing was going to save me a lot of time in organising the site content.

## Step one:  Setting up a new Expo app

```
npm create-expo-app@latest MyApp
```

## Step two:  Resetting the expo app to a minimal setup

```
cd MyApp (move into project folder)
npm run reset-project
```

This leaves only the index.tsx and _layout.tsx files in the MyApp/app folder.  If this command doesn't work for you, you can manually delete the extra files inside the MyApp/app folder.

## Step three:  Starting the app

```
npx expo start (run this command in the project root folder, which contains the package.json file.)
```

You may now:
- Scan the QR code to open the app on a mobile device (if Expo is installed on the device).
- Or press w to open the code in a web browser.


## Step four:  Customising the index screen

Open the app/index.tsx file and add the following code:

```
import { Text, View, StyleSheet } from 'react-native';

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text style={styles.text}>Homepage</Text>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#FFFFFF', // white background
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
  text: {
    color: '#000000', // black text
  },
});
```

Explanation:
- View is essentially a generic container, like div in pure HTML.
- Text is likewise a predefined text component.
- styles is an object instantiated by StyleSheet.create.  This object functions like a library defining the characteristics of container and text.  The user can then call on styles.container and styles.text like object properties.
- Note container and text in the styles object are parallel in terms of structure, each holding object-key characteristics within curly braces.  Text should not be nested within the container curly braces.


Source:
https://docs.expo.dev/tutorial/create-your-first-app/

